TLDR: difx2mark4 is to HOPS as difx2fits is to AIPS

Some background on DiFX to Mark4

difx2mark4 was developed to convert native DiFX output (in the
so-called SWIN[burne] format) into the Mark4 fileset for use
with the HOPS (Haystack Observatory Postprocessing System)
package and integrated fully within the DiFX (SVN) code base.
The primary author (Roger Capallo) developed the tool ca 2010
and installed it with DiFX in May of 2010 (r2198) and his last
commit was in June of 2020 (r9575).  Geoff Crew supported the
integration and maintenance starting in 2010.

After Roger's retirement, John Barrett took over maintenance.

In late 2023 (15th DiFX meeting in Socorro) it was decided to
retire the DiFX SVN in favor of a leaner DiFX GIT repository
(https://github.com/difx) and a decision was taken to eventually
de-integrate difx2mark4 and HOPS from the main DiFX repository.
In some sense both were provided as "vendor branch" offerings
to SVN and as HOPS is slated to migrate to a public GIT as well,
the vendor branch is no longer needed.  That migration is likely
to complete in 2024.

The first step of this migration is to integrate the difx2mark4
build into the HOPS (version 3) SVN repository to be built there.
Note that difx2mark4 relies on the DiFX code for its input, so
it is hardly a standalone program.  Nevertheless the 'archival'
directory contains Roger's notes on putting the pieces together
without actually having DiFX installed (assuming you grabbed
the appropriate sources).  As this installation is a transitional
step until HOPS (version 4) is ready and difx2hops provides the
equivalent functionality, well, we'll drop support for that.

The integration with HOPS3 is accomplished via arguments that
allow the configure.ac to be used from this directory more-or
less as was done in the DiFX integration.  $DIFXROOT is required
to locate the appropriate things in $DIFXROOT/lib or include.

INSTALL contains appropriate instructions if you want to build
difx2mark4 without the rest of HOPS.

One complication is that that difx2mark4 requires mark4 library
includes and code; these were duplicated into DiFX, but with the
integration into HOPS this is no longer needed (and preferable).
The offending code has been moved to src-dup and compilation with
the HOPS3 sources are implicit.  Arrangements to do otherwise may
be made if the need arises....

eof
